---
layout: page
title: Coverage Path Planning in Unknown Environments
description:
img: assets/img/Picture2.jpg
importance: 1
category: work
related_publications: 
---

## Introduction
Typical operations of autonomous vehicles such as terrain mapping, arable farming, floor cleaning, structural inspection, lawn mowing, oil spill cleaning, humanitarian demining, usually require covering of all points in the search area, i.e., _Coverage Path Planning_ (CPP). Often, these operations are performed in either completely unknown or partially known environments where the information on the exact geometrical shapes and locations, of obstacles and map boundaries, may be incorrect or incomplete. Therefore, it is essential to utilize online (i.e., sensor-based) CPP methods that can dynamically unfold the environment via discovering unknown obstacles on the path; thus facilitating online trajectory adaptation, obstacle avoidance, mapping boundaries, and complete coverage.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CPP_1.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
        <p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
            (a) Seabed mapping.
        </p>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CPP_2.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
        <p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
            (b) Arable farming.
        </p>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CPP_3.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
        <p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
            (c) Floor cleaning.
        </p>
    </div>
</div>
<p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
    Figure 1: Applications of coverage path planning algorithms.
</p>

## Hierarchical Coverage Path Planning
Coming soon...

## Coverage Path Planning of 3D Underwater Terrain

**Related Paper:**
- Z. Shen, J. Song, K. Mittal, and S. Gupta, “CT-CPP: Coverage path planning for 3D terrain reconstruction using dynamic coverage trees,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 135–142, Jan. 2022. [<b><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9573264">Paper</a></b>]
- Z. Shen, J. Song, K. Mittal, and S. Gupta, “Autonomous 3-D mapping and safe-path planning for underwater terrain reconstruction using multi-level coverage trees,” in MTS/IEEE OCEANS, 2017, pp. 1–6. [<b><a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8232157">Paper</a></b>]

**Method Overview:**
Due to sensing limitations, the proposed CT-CPP algorithm performs layered scanning of the 3D region to collect terrain data guided by a coverage tree (CT). CT-CPP is illustrated in Figure 2. Once the robot reaches a node, it covers the corresponding subregion using a 2D CPP algorithm. During the coverage of each planar subregion, the robot collects data for the 3D terrain structures below. Based on the data, the robot projects and stores the information about obstacles intersecting the plane below by forming a 2D occupancy map, which is used to identify the disconnected subregions on that plane. i.e., it adds child nodes to the CT. The updated tree is then used to plan an optimal tree traversal sequence by solving a traveling salesman problem. The above process continues until no unvisited node available on the tree.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CPP_4.svg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
    Figure 2: Illustration of the CT-CPP algorithm.
</p>

**Results:**
The CT-CPP algorithm is validated on a high-fidelity underwater simulator called [UWSim](https://wiki.ros.org/uwsim) based on the [Robot Operating System](https://www.ros.org/). The AUV, called Girona 500, is simulated. Five scenes of size 450m × 450m × 400m are randomly generated for performance validation as shown in Figure 3(a). A comparative evaluation of the coverage trajectories generated by the CT-CPP and the terrain following CPP [(TF-CPP)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00141150) methods in scene 1 is presented in Figure 3(b) and Figure 3(c), respectively. Figure 3(f) shows the total trajectory lengths for all five scenes, which indicate that the CT-CPP method took the shorter path lengths. Figure 3(g) shows that the CT-CPP method consumed less energy in all five scenes as compared to the TF-CPP method due to its frequent vertical motions. Further, we numerically evaluated the reconstruction errors using different α, which is a positive parameter controlling the desired level of details. As seen in Figure 3(h), CT-CPP performs better in all five scenes. Thus, CT-CPP is an alternate method to TF-CPP and it is expected to outperform the TF-CPP method in a significant number of scenarios.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/CPP_5.svg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<p align="center" style="font-size:0.9rem;">
    Figure 3: Performance evaluation for CT-CPP as compared to TF-CPP.
</p>
